3 PERSONALITY TYPES IN THE WORKPLACE

Relater - Likes to listen and get feedback befiore responding

Analyzer - Deals with facts and figures before taking action

Driver - Likes to take action and be in control of situations

Expresser - Likes to work with feelings and the opinions of others

Use as few words as possible without impacting the meaning of what you’re conveying. State your message briefly and clearly by:

Eliminating unnecessary words. For example, instead of saying “Our entire team will be implementing this new procedure in the not too distant future,” say “We’ll implement this procedure soon.”

Using active voice. For example, instead of saying “Travel will be reduced due to budget cuts,” say “Budget cuts will reduce travel.”

Avoiding absolute words. Such words don't allow any exception. When you use them too often, people perceive you as critical or judgmental, which can make the person you're speaking to feel defensive and stop listening. For example, instead of saying “You always arrive late,” say “You often arrive late".

SUMMARY
The words you use are important,
tone and pace is important
Become active speaker, be empathetic and ask questions
choose best communication channel for your message

PERSONALITY TYPES
There are 4 commomn personality types in the office space:
Assertive, Agressive, Passive, Passive-aggressive
Being Assertive is the best way.

HOW CAN I BEHAVE ASSERTIVELY?
Assertiveness is a behavioral trait. It’s not an innate quality or something you are born with; it can be acquired. Relative to the other three behaviors that you have explored, assertiveness can be constructively applied in your workplace. It's important to remember that while being assertive may require practice, it is not difficult. But, you need to watch out for certain things. Here are some ways to practice assertiveness through body language


HOW SHOULD I APPROACH WORKPLACE CONFLICT?K

A man gets on an elevator with his dog. This is a small dog, on a leash and under control by its owner. 

At the next floor, a woman gets on and scowls at the dog. The dog growls. 

On the next floor another man gets on and smiles at the dog. The dog wags its tail.

You saw two different reactions to the dog. Do you think the woman was being difficult? Why do you think she reacted the way she did? Was she mean or just afraid of dogs? What does this story tell us?

When we have a problem with someone, a coworker for example, we often think that the problem is with that other person. But the problem could lie somewhere else. Think of conflict as a story that we tell ourselves. This is because the story is a one-sided narrative based on our perceptions and limited understanding of the situation. We need to learn to rewrite such one-sided stories so that they are not based on our assumptions and points of view only. You will learn how you can do this in the pages that follow.




PRACTICE THESE STEPS WHEN YOU FIND YOURSELF IN A CONFLICT

Analyze your feelings.

The first step in dealing with conflicts or challenging interactions is to identify what bothers you. At the beginning you’ll be thinking about what’s wrong from your point of view rather than someone else’s perspective. This is fine, as long as you realize that you’re not done until you understand the other side’s position as well.

Ask relevant questions.

Remove personal elements such as your biases or desires. Identify the "what,” "who,” and "when" aspects of the challenge.

Avoid thinking about "why.” This can get personal and assumes that you know more about the other party than you probably really do. Remember, at this stage, your focus is only to identify the various aspects of the challenge.

Avoid generalizations.

Avoid generalizations like “too much” or “constantly.” Generalizations are not supported by facts and reflect individual opinion. As such, they can color your judgment and make resolution more difficult to achieve.

Avoid judgmental phrases.

Avoid using judgmental phrases such as “weak” or “too proud.” Too much judgment, too early in the process, makes resolution more difficult rather than easier to achieve. It’s about finding the best solution to a problem, even if it’s one you haven’t thought of or, at first, did not think you could agree to.


Drop loaded action phrases.

Avoid using action phrases such as “hogs all credit” or “obsesses.” Loaded action phrases can hamper the accuracy of your analysis. At this point, you’ve gotten to a description of the problem that’s more accurate and less emotionally loaded. Both things are crucial if you want to resolve the situation fairly.






